When you're starting your process,
how do you you need to
make performance goals like what
do you want your app to be?
When you say you want it to be fast or
you want it to be not slow,
what does that mean specifically?
And to do that you need to
answer a couple of questions,
about the larger ecosystem
of your project.
So who are your users?
I am amazed at how many developers I've
talked to who actually cannot even answer
this question, you're building an app,
who are the people who are using it?
like, tell me about them.
What kind of device do they have, do they?
Are they android people?
Are they iOS people?
Are they old crappy iOS people?
Are they old crappy android people like
are they running running iPhone eights?
Are they running android four?
Are they in a corporate environment and
they're still locked into iE 11 for
some reason.
Like, there's all kinds of diversity out
there, and you need to make sure you
understand who is using your stuff and
what device they have.
Once you know that you need to think about
the psychology that you've put them in.
Think about the psychology of waiting.
How long are they going to be
willing to wait for your project?
How anxious are they,
how much value do they get from it.
How much overhead can you give them
without them being all pissed at you.
And if it's about more than
them just not being pissed,
how fast you need to make it for them
to be genuinely impressed by yourself.
What is the competitor, and
how do you be 20% faster than them?
How do you hit that mark?
Is setting that goal.
So bringing that down and
making it practical,
you can answer a question by saying,
my site or
my app should load in however many
seconds and load is an ambiguous term.
It's not necessarily the load event.
It could be largest contentful paint.
It could be until your
loading screen is done.
It could be whatever, whatever that is
appropriately to mean for your app.
That site you should hit that marker
in how many seconds on what kind of
connection.
And by answering that, you can feed
that into how big can you make things.
There's a fantastic site called
performancebudget.io where we can
try this.
So let's, I'm gonna do that together.
You can do it too if you want,
not necessarily if you do
not want to play with it.
But here's performancebudget.io and
so we can put things together.
So if I want my site request metrics.com,
if I want to load in two seconds on a DSL,
how fast it are,
and I go It allows me to
customize things like
how much of different
things am I going to do?
So, all right, I'm not going to write
a whole lot of JavaScript on it.
I'm going to keep that like for
K,12K for CSS, and that seems okay.
I'm probably gonna need
a little bit more images and
then I'm not going to use a video.
So, if I click go with this budgets,
here is what I would actually achieve so,
on DSL I would load in
1 point 2 seconds if I
can stay within these size
budgets approximately.
And in the worst case on
a slow mobile 2G connection,
it would take 70 seconds 56k 43.
Super fast it's like you wouldn't
even know that you'd hit enter and
the page would be done.
It'd be awesome.
Now this is hitting these size targets.
This is what's called
your performance budget.
How big can your stuff be and
still hits your performance targets?
And if you're going to exceed that,
you need to make it compromise
in one of two places.
Either something else has to get
smaller or you're gonna get slower.
It's an iron triangle, you can't
both keep piling JavaScript in and
keep getting faster at the same time.
Now, this is approximates, right?
Because there's lots of
variables in the equation.
We talked about, CDNs and
changing load times and what's necessary.
So this is assuming you've applied most
general performance best practices.
Here's how much stuff you have
to do to get to load time.
Once you know this,
you've set a performance budget.
And you can go from the beginning of your
project, knowing what that budget is and
make decisions as you go.
So if you get a feature coming
along you need to chart at this,
beautiful interactive chart on your page.
But to accomplish that you have
to pull down 100 low wage jobs,
and blows you out of your budget,
then you can put that back to,
whoever needs a good decision and
say hey, we totally have this feature.
Schools slow down
the site by five seconds.
And maybe it's worth it, maybe that
feature will make the site valuable enough
that people will wait for it.
Maybe you can put a spinner in and
that will be okay because you're about to
deliver so much awesome that
they'll wait but they won't.
If that's shocking, now,
the business person, the project manager,
your peer, your boss,
you whoever needs to know that.
Think about it in terms of is this
feature worth making the site slow?.
This is a question that you need
to ask yourself all the time.
For performance to be important.